Welcome to the inaugural year of FlowerFest 18
The seed has been sown to raise the profile of the creative side of all things floral and to show the joy to one's spirit by working with nature.
My inspiration came after a visit i made to the annual flower festival in Girona, Spain.
'Temps de Flors' has grown year on year (now 61 years), and is the biggest revenue provider for Girona. Thestreets are lined with retailers and businesses showcasing their own creativity and ingenuity. From a small plant pot or to the more elaborate window display of floral art, it is a feast for the eyes and senses. With local participation being key to its success it has become known as a commuinity with floaral focus.
Walking the streets of Girona, it dawned on me that Christchurch would be the perfect venue for our own flower festival in Dorset, and give an opportunity to focus on an area of health that is provn to improce by working with nature, the area of, Mental Health and Well-being.
Working with flowers and nature and gardening increate our levels of seotonin, and they are positive fields in the prevention of mental health issues, whilst being equally important in aiding reovery of those afflicted with the illness. Mental Health is at the last, beginning to be readdresses and is becoming an illness to now discuss and no onger hide behind, to talk about rather than supply medication. In particular the younger generation nowadays are under such immense pressure from social media, lack of employment opportunities and uncertain economic changes, it is imperative mental health fitness is given as much priority as physical health fitness, hopefully from an early age.
So, in this first year of FlowerFest, we will ne giving local Mental Health and Well-being Charities and organisations the opportunity to highlight the work they do for our community with a designated charity area in Saxon Square.
All proceeds from this year's FlowerFest 18 will be donated to a local charity Dorset Mind, youth sector.
In addition, FlowerFest 18 are very fortunate that Christhcurch Priory have given permission  for the installation of the sponsere floral areas within their grounds, whilst they run their own Music and Art Festival inside the Priory. Thank you to them for embracin this new opportunity with open eyes!
Also to Christchurch Borough Council who have been key in the instigation of this event and to ALL those supporters who are mentioned herewith.
I hope you too, will join FlowerFest 18 in making this event a great success and sponsor an area.
